---
layout: post
title: Welcome all readers
author: gonvalhector
---

Welcome to my personal blog. I suppose introductions are in order. My name is Hector Gonzalez, I'm 26 years old and I'm from Mexico.  
I hope to work as a remote web developer soon, and as a game developer someday
(hopefully soon as well!).  
I've been drawing most of my life, and I can't remember a moment during my
childhood where I wasn't doodling or sketching something, so drawing and painting are a big
hobby of mine.

As I've been trying to get back on track with my hobbies and projects, particularly
at the beginning of this year, I started thinking about how to keep a record of my
ideas, things I've noticed while learning about art or computer science, thoughts
about a book I've read recently, a game I played or a movie I watched.
Being a fan of podcasts made me think of starting one with my closest friend,
where we could just discuss all those things and keep each other accountable
with the pressure of having something to talk about during a new episode.
Ultimately, the amount of organization needed for something like that would be
too much right now, specially during quarantine, and random podcasts are a dime
a dozen nowadays, so I guess this is the best next thing (Because blogs are so
uncommon, am I right?).

As someone who loves behind the scenes type of content and cast & crew interviews
for films and video games, the aspect I'm most interested in blogging about is
this idea of recording a journey of improvement.

- What classes am I taking?
- Why for?
- What did I learn?
- What have I done recently that pushed my skills?
- What can I do better next time?

I really believe that the best way to learn and get better at any skill is to ask
questions like that and figure out the answers to them, so that's really what I want to
explore with this blog.

You can expect new posts weekly and hopefully I'll be able to keep up with that schedule.
The next entry will probably be a look back at the art I've made through the years,
since I have the idea of making an Instagram challenge where people take art they've
made in the past and try to improve it or expand on it with their current skills,
so a deep dive through the years is in order.
That's all for now!
